## Media capture and constraints

- Media devices : `navigator.mediaDevices`

- Constraints : - When accessing media devices, it is a good practice to provide as detailed constraints as possible. While it is possible to open the default camera and microphone with a simple constraint, it might deliver a media stream that is far from the most optimal for the application. - The specific constraints are defined in a `MediaTrackConstraint` object, one for "audio" and one for "video". - Attribute type : `ConstraintLong`, `ConstraintBoolean`, `ConstraintDouble`, `ConstraintDOMString` - These can either be a specific value, range, or object
  Eg:

```js
// Camera with a resolution as close to 640x480 as possible
{
  "video": {
    "width": 640,
    "height": 480
  }
}

// or

// Camera with a resolution in the range 640x480 to 1024x768
{
  "video": {
    "width": {
      "min": 640,
      "max": 1024
    },
    "height": {
      "min": 480,
      "max": 768
    }
  }
}

// or

// Camera with the exact resolution of 1024x768
{
  "video": {
    "width": {
      "exact": 1024
    },
    "height": {
      "exact": 768
    }
  }
}
```

- `MediaStreamTrack.getSettings()` : To determine the actual configuration a certain track of a media stream has. Returns the `MediaTrackSettings` currently applied.
- `applyConstraints()` : update the constraints of a track from a media device we have opened, by calling on track

## Display media

- `getDisplayMedia()` : To perform screen capturing and recording. The returned MediaStream works the same as when using getUserMedia().
  - The constraints for `getDisplayMedia()` differ from the ones used for regular video or audio input.

Eg:

```js
{ 
  video: {
    cursor: 'always' | 'motion' | 'never',
    displaySurface: 'application' | 'browser' | 'monitor' | 'window'
  }
}
```

> **Note**: These might not be supported by all browsers that have display media support.

## Streams and tracks

- A `MediaStream` represents a stream of media content, which consists of tracks (`MediaStreamTrack`) of audio and video.
- You can retrieve all the tracks from `MediaStream` by calling `MediaStream.getTracks()`, which returns an array of `MediaStreamTrack` objects.

- `MediaStreamTrack` properties :
  - `kind`: Either audio or video, indicating the kind of media it represents.
  - `enabled`: Each track can be muted by toggling this property.
  - `remote`: indicates if a track is sourced by a `RTCPeerConnection` and coming from a remote peer.
