## Getting started with peer connections

- Peer connections is the part of the WebRTC specifications that deals with connecting two applications on different computers to communicate using a peer-to-peer protocol.
- The communication between peers can be video, audio or arbitrary binary data (for clients supporting the "RTCDataChannel" API).
- In order to discover how two peers can connect, both clients need to provide an ICE Server configuration.
- STUN or TURN-server : to provide ICE candidates to each client which is then transferred to the remote peer
- This transferring of ICE candidates is commonly called signaling.

## Signaling

- The WebRTC specification includes APIs for communicating with an ICE (Internet Connectivity Establishment) Server, but the signaling component is not part of it.
- Signaling can be implemented in many different ways, and the WebRTC specification doesn't prefer any specific solution.

## Initiating peer connections

- Each peer connection is handled by a RTCPeerConnection object.
- The constructor for this class takes a single RTCConfiguration object as its parameter. This object defines how the peer connection is set up and should contain information about the ICE servers to use.

- Once the RTCPeerConnection is created we need to create an SDP offer or answer, depending on if we are the calling peer or receiving peer.
- Once the SDP offer or answer is created, it must be sent to the remote peer through a different channel.
- Passing SDP objects to remote peers is called signaling and is not covered by the WebRTC specification.

> > > Sender side

---

- To initiate the peer connection setup from the calling side, we create a "RTCPeerConnection" object and then call "createOffer()" to create a "RTCSessionDescription" object.
- This session description is set as the local description using setLocalDescription() and is then sent over our signaling channel to the receiving side.
- We also set up a listener to our signaling channel for when an answer to our offered session description is received from the receiving side.

Eg:

```js
async function makeCall() {
  const configuration = {
    iceServers: [{ urls: 'stun:stun.l.google.com:19302' }]
  };
  const peerConnection = new RTCPeerConnection(configuration);
  signalingChannel.addEventListener('message', async (message) => {
    if (message.answer) {
      const remoteDesc = new RTCSessionDescription(message.answer);
      await peerConnection.setRemoteDescription(remoteDesc);
    }
  });
  const offer = await peerConnection.createOffer();
  await peerConnection.setLocalDescription(offer);
  signalingChannel.send({ offer: offer });
}
```

> > > Receiver side

---

- On the receiving side, we wait for an incoming offer before we create our RTCPeerConnection instance.
- Once that is done we set the received offer using setRemoteDescription().
- Next, we call createAnswer() to create an answer to the received offer.
- This answer is set as the local description using setLocalDescription() and then sent to the calling side over our signaling server.

Eg:

```js
const peerConnection = new RTCPeerConnection(configuration);
signalingChannel.addEventListener('message', async (message) => {
  if (message.offer) {
    peerConnection.setRemoteDescription(new RTCSessionDescription(message.offer));
    const answer = await peerConnection.createAnswer();
    await peerConnection.setLocalDescription(answer);
    signalingChannel.send({ answer: answer });
  }
});
```

- Once the two peers have set both the local and remote session descriptions they know the capabilities of the remote peer.
- This doesn't mean that the connection between the peers is ready. For this to work we need to collect the ICE candidates at each peer and transfer (over the signaling channel) to the other peer.

## ICE candidates

When you create an `RTCPeerConnection` object, and set up your WebRTC application, your **browser** will automatically gather information about your PC's identity so that another peer can find you.

- Before two peers can communicate using WebRTC, they need to exchange connectivity information.
- Since the network conditions can vary depending on a number of factors, an external service is usually used for discovering the possible candidates for connecting to a peer.
- This service is called ICE and is using either a STUN or a TURN server.
- STUN (Session Traversal Utilities for NAT) is usually used indirectly in most WebRTC applications.
- TURN (Traversal Using Relay NAT) is the more advanced solution that incorporates the STUN protocols and most commercial WebRTC based services use a TURN server for establishing connections between peers.
- The WebRTC API supports both STUN and TURN directly, and it is gathered under the more complete term Internet Connectivity Establishment (ICE).
- When creating a WebRTC connection, we usually provide one or several ICE servers in the configuration for the `RTCPeerConnection` object.

## Trickle ICE

- Once a RTCPeerConnection object is created, the underlying framework uses the provided ICE servers (STUN or TURN) to gather candidates for connectivity establishment (ICE candidates).
- The event `icegatheringstatechange` on `RTCPeerConnection` signals in what state the ICE gathering is (new, gathering or complete).
- tickle ice technique: Instead of waiting till the ice gathering is completed, transmit each ICE candidate to the remote peer as it gets discovered. This will significantly reduce the setup time for the peer connectivity and allow a video call to get started with less delays.
- To gather ICE candidates, simply add a listener for the `icecandidate` event.
- The `RTCPeerConnectionIceEvent` emitted on that listener will contain candidate property that represents a new candidate that should be sent to the remote peer.

Eg:

```js
// Listen for local ICE candidates on the local RTCPeerConnection
peerConnection.addEventListener('icecandidate', (event) => {
  if (event.candidate) {
    signalingChannel.send({ 'new-ice-candidate': event.candidate });
  }
});

// Listen for remote ICE candidates and add them to the local RTCPeerConnection
signalingChannel.addEventListener('message', async (message) => {
  if (message.iceCandidate) {
    try {
      await peerConnection.addIceCandidate(message.iceCandidate);
    } catch (e) {
      console.error('Error adding received ice candidate', e);
    }
  }
});
```

## Connection established

- Once ICE candidates are received, the connection state will change to connected.

Eg:

```js
// Listen for connectionstatechange on the local RTCPeerConnection
peerConnection.addEventListener('connectionstatechange', (event) => {
  if (peerConnection.connectionState === 'connected') {
    // Peers connected!
  }
});
```
